---
layout: page
title: Publications till 2010
permalink: /year/Till2010.md/
---

K.P. Karunakaran, S. Suryakumar, U. Chandrasekhar and Alain Bernard, 2010, “Hybrid Rapid Manufacturing of Metallic Objects”, International Journal of Rapid Manufacturing, Vol. 1, No. 4, pp. 433-455 (2010).

K.P. Karunakaran, S. Suryakumar, Vishal Pushpa and Sreenath Babu Akula, “Low-Cost Integration of Additive and Subtractive Processes for Hybrid Layered Manufacturing”, International Journal of Robotics and CIM, vol. 26, pp. 490-499 (Oct 2010).

K.P. Karunakaran, Shringi, R., A. Bernard, Arrazola, P.J. and Mihir Shah, “Offline Adaptive Control”, in the special issue on “Sculptured and Complex Surfaces Machining” of International Journal of Machining and Machinability of Materials (ISSN (Online): 1748-572X, ISSN), Volume 8, No. ¾, pp. 356-371 (2010).

K.P. Karunakaran, R. Shringi, S.C. Deepak Ramamurthi, C. Hariharan, “Octree based NC Simulation system for optimization of feed rate in milling using instantaneous force model”, International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology , Vol. 46, No. 5-8, pp. 465-490 (2010).

Mihir Shah, Lander Unanue, Praveen Bidare, Unai Galfarsoro, Luis Mª Iriarte, Karunakaran, K.P. and Pedro J. Arrazola, ”Tool Control Monitoring Applied to Drilling”, Intercut 2010 – 6ème Assises Machines et Usinage a Grande Vitesse (MUGV 2010), Arts et Métiers ParisTech Cluny, October 13-15, 2010.

A. Bernard, G. Taillandier and K.P. Karunakaran, “Evolution of Rapid Product Development with Rapid Manufacturing: Concepts and Applications”, International Journal of Rapid Manufacturing, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 3-18 (2009).

K.P. Karunakaran, S. Suryakumar, Vishal Pushpa and Sreenath Babu Akula, “Retrofitment of a CNC Machine for Hybrid Layered Manufacturing”, International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology, Vol. 45, pp. 690-703 (2009).

Karunakaran, “Rapid Manufacturing of Metallic Objects”, Key note presentation in the 9th Global Conference on Flexible Systems Management (GLOGIFT’09), NITIE, Mumbai, November 12-14, 2009.

Karunakaran, K.P., Suryakumar, S. And Bernard, A., “Hybrid Rapid Manufacturing of Metallic Objects”, Key note presentation in 14èmes Assises Européennes du prototypage Rapide (14th European Conference on Rapid Prototyping), Paris, June 24-25, 2009.

Karunakaran, K.P., Shringi, R., Bernard, A., Shah, M., Arrazola, P.J., “Process Modeling for Optimization of Complex Machining”, Proceedings of the 12th CIRP International Conference on Modeling of Machining Operations, San Sebastian, May  7–8, 2009.

K.P. Karunakaran, “Rapid Manufacturing of Metallic Objects”, Invited Lecture in TEAMTech 2009, November 19, 2009, Bangalore.

K.P. Karunakaran, “Rapid Manufacturing of Metallic Objects”, Invited Lecture in National Conference on Advances in Mechanical Engineering (NCAME09), Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Technology, Mumbai, January 16, 2009.

K.P. Karunakaran and R. Shringi, “A Solid Model-Based Offline Adaptive Controller for Feed Rate Scheduling for Milling Process”, Journal of Materials Processing Technology, Volume 204, No. 1-3, pp. 384-396 (2008).

Yogesh Dashora, M. K. Tiwari and K.P. Karunakaran, “A Psycho Clonal Algorithm Based Approach to Solve Operation Sequencing Problem in a CAPP Environment”, International Journal of Computer Integrated Manufacturing, 21(5), pp. 510-525,  pp. 1-16 (2008).

K.P.Karunakaran, Vishal Pushpa, Sreenath Babu Akula, S. Suryakumar, “Techno-Economic Analysis of Hybrid Layered Manufacturing”, Int J of Intelligent Systems Technologies and Application, Vol 4, No. ½, pp. 161-176 (2008).

K.P. Karunakaran, “Rapid Manufacturing of Metallic Objects “, Colloquium for Humboldt Fellows and Awardees in the Engineering Sciences in India, New Delhi, Oct 31 – Nov 2, 2008.

Retrofitment of a CNC Machine for ArcHLM”, Proceedings of the Conference on Rapid Product Development (RPD 2008), Oct 29-30, 2008, Oliveira de Azeméis (Portugal).

A. Bernard, G. Taillandier and K.P. Karunakaran, “Integrated Numerical Rapid Product Development: Concepts and Examples of Application”, International Conference on Additive Technologies iCAT 2008, September 17-18, 2008, Slovenia.

K.P. Karunakaran and S. Suryakumar, “Retrofitment of a CNC Machine for ArcHLM”, Proceedings of the Conference on Rapid Product Development (RPD 2008), Oct 29-30, 2008, Oliveira de Azeméis (Portugal).

K.P. Karunakaran and S. Suryakumar, “Rapid Manufacturing of Metallic Objects”, Poster Session in Second Indo-American Frontiers of Engineering (IAFOE), February 29 – March 1, 2008, Irvine (USA).

K.P. Karunakaran and S. Suryakumar, “Rapid Manufacturing of Metallic Objects”, Invited Lecture in 3rd International Conference on Advances in Manufacturing Technology (ICAMT 2008) for Young Engineers, February 6 – 7, 2008, Chennai.

K.P. Karunakaran and S. Suryakumar, “Techno-Economic Analysis of Hybrid Layered Manufacturing”, Symposium on Joining of Materials (SOJOM), December 11-13, 2008, Tiruchirappalli (India).

K.P. Karunakaran and S. Suryakumar, “Arc-Based Hybrid Layered Manufacturing (ArcHLM)”, Invited Lecture in ELITEX 2008 organized by Department of Information and Communications Technology, January 17-18, 2008, India Habitat Centre, New Delhi.

Amol Ghorpade, K. P. Karunakaran and M.K. Tiwari,  “Selection of optimal part orientation in fused deposition odelling using Swarm Intelligence”, I MECH E Journal of Engineering Manufacture, Vol. 221 Part B, pp. 1209-1220 (2007).

Satish Kumar Tyagi, Amol Ghorpade, K. P. Karunakaran and M.K. Tiwari, “Optimal Part Orientation in Layered Manufacturing Using Evolutionary Stickers Based DNA”, Virtual and Physical Prototyping, Vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 3-19 (March 2007).

K.P. Karunakaran and R. Shringi, “Octree to B-Rep Conversion for Volumetric NC Simulation”, International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology, 32 (1-2) pp. 116-131 (2007).

Alain Bernard and K.P. Karunakaran, “Rapid Manufacturing of Metallic Objects”, 3rd International Conference on Advanced Research in Virtual and Rapid Prototyping (VR@P2007), September 24-29, 2007, Leiria (Portugal).

K.P. Karunakaran, S. Suryakumar and Alain Bernard, “Rapid Manufacturing of Metallic Objects”, Invited Lecture in International Conference on Modeling and Simulation, August 27-29, 2007, Coimbatore Institute of Technology, Coimbatore (India).

Gaurav Singh, Alok Kumar Choudhary, K. P. Karunakaran and M. K. Tiwari, “An Evolutionary Approach for Multi-Pass Turning Operation”, I MECH E Journal of Engineering Manufacture Vol. 220, pp. 145-162 (2006).

Sreenathbabu Akula and K.P. Karunakaran, “Hybrid Adaptive Layer Manufacturing: An Intelligent Art of Direct Metal Rapid Tooling Process”, Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing, Vol 22, No. 2, pp. 113-123 (April 2006).

J.P. Sahu, S. Suryakumar and K.P. Karunakaran, “ Demystifying Product Lifecycle Management “, International Conference on Trends in Product Life Cycle-Modelling, Simulation and Synthesis (PLMSS06), December 18-20, 2006, Bangalore.

K.P. Karunakaran, S. Suryakumar and Alain Bernard, “Rapid Manufacturing of Metallic Objects”, uRapid 2006, November 27-28, 2006, Frankfurt.

Amol Ghorpade, Yogesh Dashora, M. K. Tiwari and K.P. Karunakaran, (2006): “Introducing Hierarchical Particle Swarm Optimization to Optimal Part Orientation in Fused Deposition Modeling”, Proceedings of IDETC/CIE 2006: 32nd Design and Automation Conference (DAC), Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.Tokyo (September 10-13).

K.P. Karunakaran, Vishal Pushpa, Sreenath Babu Akula, S. Suryakumar, Rajeev Dwivedi and R. Kovacevic (2006): “Techno-Economic Analysis of Hybrid Layered Manufacturing”, Indo-Japan Seminar on Micro/ Nano Manufacturing, Tokyo (February 19-23).

A. Sreenathbabu, K.P. Karunakaran and C. Amarnath, “Statistical Process Design for Hybrid Adaptive Layer Manufacturing”, Rapid Prototyping Journal, Vol 11, No. 4, pp. 235-248 (2005).

K.P. Karunakaran, Saurabh Agrawal, Pankaj D. Vengurlekar, Onkar S. Sahasrabudhe, Vishal Pushpa and Ronald H. Ely, “Segmented Object Manufacturing”, IIE Journal of Design and Manufacture, Vol. 37, No. 4, pp. 291-302 (April 2005).

K.P. Karunakaran, P.D. Solanki, Onkar S. Sahasrabudhe, Vishal Pushpa, Rajeev Dwivedi and R. Kovacevic (2005): “Simplified Production of Large Prototypes using Visible Slicing”, 16th Solid Freeform Fabrication Symposium, Austin (August 1-3).

K.P. Karunakaran, Vishal Pushpa, Sreenath Babu Akula, Rajeev Dwivedi and R. Kovacevic (2005): “Techno-Economic Analysis of Hybrid Layered Manufacturing”, 16th Solid Freeform Fabrication Symposium, Austin (August 1-3).

K.P. Karunakaran, Yogesh Dashora, M.K. Tiwari and S.N. Dwivedi (2005): “Solving Planning and Scheduling Problems for Web Supported Plant Chains Using Ant Colony Optimization”, 12th ISPE International Conference on Concurrent Engineering: Research and Applications (CE2005), Dallas (July 25-29).

K.P. Karunakaran and M.K. Tiwari, “Rapid Product Development”, Modern Machine Tools, Vol 3 No. 1 pp. 76-80 (October 2005).

K.P. Karunakaran and S. Meyyappan, “Rejuvenating Machine Tools”, Cover Story in Modern Machine Tools, Vol 2 No. 2 pp. 22-26 (April 2005).

Vijay P. Bapat and K.P. Karunakaran, “Rapid Prototyping: The Dawn of Slice Age”, Search, Vol 8 No. 1 pp. 341-350 (January 2005).

K.P. Karunakaran, Sreenathbabu Akula and Vishal Pushpa, “Hybrid Layered Manufacturing:  Direct Rapid Metal Tool-Making Process”, I MECH E Journal of Engineering Manufacture, Vol. 218, No. B12, pp. 1657-1665 (December 2004).

Vishal Pushpa, Sreenath Babu Akula and K.P. Karunakaran,, “Hybrid Layered Manufacturing”, International Conference on Total Engineering, Analysis and Manufacturing Technologies 2004 (TeamTech2004), IISc Bangalore, November 1-4, 2004.

Amit Kumar Singh, R. Shringi and K.P. Karunakaran,, “High Speed Cutting”, International Conference on Total Engineering, Analysis and Manufacturing Technologies 2004 (TeamTech2004), IISc Bangalore, November 1-4, 2004.

Sreenathbabu Akula, Karunakaran K.P, “Application of Taguchi Methods in Hybrid Layered Manufacturing for the optimization of the process parameters”, at 26th Japan Rapid Prototyping Symposium, Saitama, Japan, June 15, 2004, pp. 137-143.

K.P. Karunakaran, R. Shringi and Amit Kumar Singh, “Offline Adaptive Control Using Virtual Machining”, Modern Machine Tools, Vol 1 No. 4 pp. 52-56 (October 2004).

K.P. Karunakaran, R. Shringi and Amit Kumar Singh, “Virtual Machining”, Modern Machine Tools, Vol 1 No . 3 pp. 62- 68 (July 2004).

K.P. Karunakaran, R. Shringi and T.P. Selvam, “Prediction of Milling Forces Using Orthogonal Cutting Data”, Proceedings of the Conference on Advances in Materials and Manufacturing Technology (CAMMT-2004), April 2, 2004, IIT Madras, pp. 17-18.

K.P. Karunakaran, R. Shringi and T.P. Selvam, “Prediction of Milling Forces Using Orthogonal Cutting Data”, Proceedings of the Conference on Advances in Materials and Manufacturing Technology (CAMMT-2004), April 2, 2004, IIT Madras, pp. 17-18.

K.P. Karunakaran, Anoop Kheerwal, P. Vivekananda Shanmuganathan and R. Shringi, “Splitting of a Box and Its Applications in Engineering”, International Journal of CAD/CAM, Vol.3, No. 2, pp. 85-95 (2003).

K.P. Karunakaran, R. Shringi and P. Vivekananda Shanmuganathan, “Comparison of Solid Representation Schemes for Volumetric NC Simulation”, International Conference on CAD/CAM, Robotics and Autonomous Factories, IIT Delhi, August 11-13, 2003.

Sreenath Babu Akula, K.P. Karunakaran, “Hybrid Layered Manufacturing of Injection Molds and Dies”, International Conference on CAD/CAM, Robotics and Autonomous Factories, IIT Delhi, August 11-13, 2003.

K.P. Karunakaran, B. Ravi and V.P. Bapat, “Rapid Prototyping and 
its Medical Applications”, BIMAO2003: XIV National Conference on Bio-Materials and Artificial Organs, December 1-3, 2003, IIT Bombay.

K.P. Karunakaran, P.V. Shanmuganathan and Anoop Kheerwal, “Rapid Prototyping of EPC Patterns “, RPSI’s 3rd National Symposium on Rapid Prototyping & Rapid Tooling, June 6-7, 2003, Bangalore.

K.P. Karunakaran, P.V. Shanmuganathan and Anoop Kheerwal, “A Preprocessor for LOM”, RPSI’s 3rd National Symposium on Rapid Prototyping & Rapid Tooling, June 6-7, 2003, Bangalore.

Karunakaran, K.P., Shivmurthy Dibbi, P. Vivekananda Shanmuganathan, Srinivasarao Kakaraparti and D.Sathyanarayana Raju, “Efficient Stock Cutting in Laminated Manufacturing”, Computer-Aided Design, Vol 34(4) 281-298 (April 2002).

Sreenath Babu Akula, K.P. Karunakaran, “ Direct Metallic Rapid Prototyping: A decisive aid in new product development”, International Conference on e-Manufacturing: An Emerging Need for 21st Century World Class Enterprises, Bhopal, India, Nov 17-19, 2002.

K.P. Karunakaran, P. Vivekananda Shanmuganathan, Nitin Gupta, Pawankumar Modani, Saurabh Garg and Dieter Fichtner, “Octree-Based Volumetric NC Simulation System”, FAIM 2002, Dresden, July, 2002.

K.P. Karunakaran, P. Vivekananda Shanmuganathan, Sanjay Janardhan Jadhav, Prashant Bhadauria and Ashish Pandey, “Rapid Prototyping of Metallic Parts and Moulds”, Journal of Materials Processing Technology, Vol. 105, pp. 371-381 (2000).

Karunakaran, K.P., Shivmurthy Dibbi, P. Vivekananda Shanmuganathan, D. Satyanarayana Raju and Srinivasarao Kakaraparti, “Optimal Stock Removal in LOM-RP”, I MECH E Journal of Engineering Manufacture, Vol. 214, Part B, pp. 947-951 (2000).

Karunakaran, K.P., D. Satyanarayana Raju, Srinivasarao Kakaraparti, P. Vivekananda Shanmuganathan and Shivmurthy Dibbi, “Optimization of Decubing in LOM-RP”, 8th European Conference on Rapid Prototyping, Paris, May 3-4, 2000 pp. 1-7 in the session “From Pattern Making to Prototyping”.

Karunakaran, K.P., P. Vivekananda Shanmuganathan, N. Gupta and M. Issac, “Swept Volume of a Generic Cutter”, I MECH E Journal of Engineering Manufacture, Vol. 214, No. B8, pp. 915-937.

Karunakaran, K.P., (1999) “Computer-Integrated Manufacturing (CIM) Systems in India”, Country Paper, Seminar on Computer-Integrated Manufacturing (CIM) Systems Sponsored by Asian Productivity Organization (APO), Olympia Hotel, Seoul, Korea, Oct. 18 – 23.

Mohanty, R.R., Subash Babu, A. and Karunakaran, K.P., “Systems and Procedures for Quality Management in Electrical Motor Industry – A Case Study”, Trends in Mechanical Engineering Education and Research – Proceedings of the 11th ISME Conference, IIT Delhi, February 3-5, 1999, pp. 280-285.

Karunakaran, K.P. and Dhande, S.G., “Computer Aided Design of Cutters for Helicoidal Surfaces”, I MECH E Journal of Engineering Manufacture, Vol. 212, No. B5 pp. 373-382 (August 1998).

Karunakaran K.P., Vivekananda Shanmuganathan P., Roth-Koch S. And Koch Kai Uwe, (1998): “Direct Rapid Prototyping of Tools”, 9th Solid Freeform Fabrication Symposium, Austin, pp. 105-112 (August 10-12).

Karunakaran K.P., Vivekananda Shanmuganathan P., Roth-Koch S. And Koch Kai Uwe, (1998): “A Two-step RP Process for Direct and Accurate Manufacture of Tools”, 7th European Conference of Rapid Prototyping & Manufacture, Aachen, Germany, July 7-9.

Karunakaran, K.P., Karthikeyan, T. And Vivekanananda Shanmuganathan, P., “Automation in Welding”, Invited lecture, Seminar on Welding Productivity through Automation Organized by Indian Institute of welding (IIW), Ramada Hotel Palm Grove, Juhu, Mumbai, (December 12, 1998) pp. 1-18 in Technical Session II.

Karunakaran, K.P., Sushant Kumar, T. Karthikeyan, Vivekananda Shanmuganathan P. And Sabine Roth-Koch, “Photogrammetric Object Synthesis for Reverse Engineering”,  AIMTDR, IIT Kharagpur (December 21-23, 1998) pp. 351-356.

Karunakaran, K.P., Karthikeyan, T. And Vivekanananda Shanmuganathan, P., “Automation in Welding”, Invited lecture, Seminar on Welding Productivity through Automation Organized by Indian Institute of welding (IIW), Ramada Hotel Palm Grove, Juhu, Mumbai, (December 12, 1998).

Karunakaran, K.P., Shailesh Bhadade and Vivekananda Shanmuganathan P.,”Off-line Adaptive Control”, AIMTDR, IIT Kharagpur (December 21-23, 1998) pp. 53-58.

Karunakaran, K.P., Vivekananda Shanmuganathan P., Roth-Koch S. And Koch Kai Uwe,”Direct Rapid Prototyping of Tools”, AIMTDR, IIT Kharagpur (December 21-23, 1998) pp. 334-339.

Karunakaran, K.P., “Low-Cost Automation for India”, Country Paper, Training on Low-Cost Automation Sponsored by Asian Productivity Organization (APO), Asian Hotel, Bangkok, Thailand, Nov. 24 – Dec. 4, 1997.

Karunakaran, K.P., Vivekananda Shanmuganathan P., “Octree Based Volumetric NC Simulation “, World Manufacturing Congress WMC-96, Canada, (November 1997).

Karunakaran, K.P. and Ushakiran, G.,  “Development of Non-Developable Surfaces”,  Proceedings of the International Conference on Sheet Metal (SheMet-97), University of Ulster at Jordanstown, Northern Ireland, pp. 319-330, April 8-10, 1997.

Karunakaran, K.P., Review of the Book “Shaft Alignment Handbook” by John Piotrowski published by Marcel Dekker, The Engineers, Institution of Mechanical Engineers (India), Vol. 77, No. 10, pp. 20 & 21 (August 1996).

Karunakaran K.P., Vivekananda Shanmuganathan P., Tappe N.S and Kota Bapu, “NC Program Simulation Using Octree Solid Modeling for Verification and Optimization of Cutting Parameters”, UG User Meet 1996, Madras, (September 1996).

Karunakaran, K.P. and K. Nilesh Kumar, “Retrofitment of a CNC Machine with a PC-Based Adaptive Controller”, 7th International Manufacturing Conference in China (IMCC-95), Harbin, China (October 1995).

Dhande, S.G., Karunakaran, K.P. and Misra, B.K., “Geometric Modeling of Manufacturing Processes using Symbolic and Computational Conjugate Geometry” Journal of Engineering for Industry, Transactions of ASME, Vol. 117, No. 3 (August 1995) pp. 288-296.

Karunakaran, K.P. and K. Nilesh Kumar, “Retrofitment of a CNC Machine with a PC-Based Adaptive Controller”, Seminar on CAD/CAM Applications in Aerospace organized by Aeronautical Society of India, Aeronautical Development Agency and Aeronautics Research & Development Board, Bangalore, (July 1995) pp. 183-192.

Dhande, S.G. and Karunakaran, K.P., “Symbolic & Computational Conjugate Geometry of a Generic Cutter and Machine Tool Assembly”, Journal of Design and Manufacture, (1994)4, pp. 167-186.

Karunakaran, K.P., Avadhani, P.S. and Dhande, S.G., “Computational Geometry and Animation of Conjugate Surfaces”, 6th International Conference on Engineering Computer Graphics and Descriptive Geometry, (ICECGDG-94), Tokyo, Japan (August 1994).

Dhande, S.G. and Karunakaran, K.P., “Realizability of Computer Aided Design”, an invited talk in Graphics, Design and Visualization, Proceedings of the IFIP International Conference on Computer Graphics 1993 – ICCG93, Bombay (India) (February, 1993), pp. 259-270.

Karunakaran, K.P., “Issues of Learning and Teaching Computer Aided Drafting”, Guest Lecture in the Winter School on Computer Aided Drafting, Motilal Nehru Regional Engineering College, Allahabad (India) (December, 1993).

Karunakaran, K.P. and Dhande, S.G., “Cutter Path Simulation and NC Program Optimization”,  Proceedings of the National Conference on Design of Mechanical Systems (NACOMM-93), IIT Kharagpur (India) (December, 1993) pp. 80-93
